Now I'll show you how you can write
your own swirl courses and lessons.
In order to do that, you're going to
need a package call swirlify,
which I'll load up right now.
All right,
so swirlify is always aware of
your current working directory.
My working directory right now
is just my home folder, so
I'm going to set my directory.
I have a special directory
on my desktop called
Courses where I like to keep some of
my swirl courses and develop them.
So you can start writing
a new swirl course and
a new lesson with the new lesson function.
I'm going to name this lesson one and
I'll name the course My First Course.
All right, so executing that
function did several things.
The first thing that it does is
that it opens up this YAML file.
All swirl lessons are written in YAML.
YAML is a fairly easy to
understand markup language.
The way that swirl uses it is
in this way where each question
is demarcated by a hyphen, and
then there is a set of key
value pairs that specifies
each type of question, and
what goes into that question
in your swirl lesson.
So just to show you,
just to sort of give you a look,
let's go to My Courses folder.
So, this is the course I just created,
called My First Course.
Opening it up there is one lesson
inside of it, called Lesson_1.
Each course is its own folder and
each lesson is its own
folder inside of a course.
And then that new lesson
function created a couple files.
The first file, customTests.R is where
you can specify your own functions for
testing the correctness
of swirl questions.
We'll talk about answer
testing a little bit later.
Dependson.txt is a text file
that you can use to list
the names of functions, excuse me,
the names of R packages that are on Cram.
That's where we'll check to make sure
R installed before the lesson begins.
initLesson.R is an R script, and
whatever you write in that R script
will happen before a lesson starts,
so you can load the data
inside of initLesson.R or
you can create functions that will
soon then be used in the lesson.
And then this lesson.yaml file is
exactly what we're looking at here
inside of RStudio.
I like using RStudio for writing swirl
lessons because having a text editor and
an R console next to each other
on the same screen works for me.
I certainly recommend using RStudio but
different people have their
different work flows.
So I have this new lesson all set up.
Now I want to start adding questions.
So you can use the wq series of
functions that come with swirl find.
And as you can see, there's several
different kinds of questions that
you can include in a lesson.
The most simple kind of question that
you can include is what's called
a message question.
So I'm just going to execute
this wq message function and
go over to my lesson.yaml file, and
as you can see, it's added
the template for a message question.
So I'm going to edit this message
question and say, Welcome to lesson 1!
And then that's all I need to do in order
to write a simple message question.
I'm then going to add another question,
this time a command question.
So a command question
will prompt the student
to actually enter some R
code into the R console.
And as you can see, the question template
is added to the lesson.yaml file.
So I'm going to ask a student
a simple question like
add 2 and 2 using the plus operator.
And then the CorrectAnswer is just
the very simple R expression of 2 + 2.
And then this AnswerTests is a function
that tests the correctness of what
the student enters into the console.
Omnitest is a function that
comes packaged in swirl and for
80-90% of the questions you're going
to be asking, you want to use Omnitest.
So in this case I'm just going
to write 2 + 2 inside of this
CorrectExpression argument,
and then I'm going to give
a very simple hint to the user and
say Just type 2 + 2.
All right, so I've written some questions,
now time to start testing this lesson.
Whenever I add a lesson to a course,
you should add it to what's
called the course manifest.
You can do this very easily by
using the add_to_manifest function.
And just to show you what that did
is that created this manifest file.
This is so we're inside of
the course directory right now.
That is the course which
is my first course.
And this manifest file just
keeps track of the order that you
want your lessons to be displayed in.
And it also keeps track of what
the lessons in the course are.
That way if you want to put data or
other files inside of this course folder,
you can do that and
those files won't show up
as a lesson that the student
can select when they're going,
when they're choosing a lesson
to work on inside of swirl.
So this manifest file just
kind of keeps things organized.
So I've added this lesson to the manifest.
Now I'm, now let's test out this lesson.
So just to check the general
formatting of this lesson,
I'm going to use the test lesson function.
If I didn't get any warnings or
any messages, that means that
this lesson passed some formatting
checks that come with swirlify.
Then I want to actually use
this lesson inside of swirl, so
I'm going to use the demo lesson function.
And as you can see, that takes us right
into the lesson that we're writing.
And I don't need to go
through swirl's menu,
so Welcome to lesson 1
is the first question.
Add 2 and 2 using a plus operator.
I'll do that.
And then that's the end of the lesson.